So I think the last things that I just
wanted to talk about are like kind of
where do we go from here?
And we already kind of brought this up
a lot, like how do you get started with
doing accessibility work
in an existing code base?
Or how do you set a good foundation
like folks are asking about,
are there good boiler plates?
Or are there good rule sets or, yeah,
how do you just start going on this stuff?
So I think about it in
three different approaches.
And for each one,
I've put a couple of links in there,
not necessarily the packages that
I'm advocating for or involved in.
But just trying to cover a spectrum of
plugin for each main JavaScript framework,
some design systems buy some
big companies, stuff like that.
So I kinda think about it in three phases.
One phase, I think that linters
are great for this type of stuff.
I think adding an accessibility linter,
the first one for React,
the second one for Angular, the third one
for Vue could be really, really powerful.
You can configure them to only run
on new or edited or saved files, and
it'll really give you that
experience right in the editor.
When you make an image without an alt tag,
it'll warn, you run your CI,
it'll go really fast.
So I'm really a big fan of linters for
this stuff, especially because so
much of it can be linted.
Checking for alt texts, checking for the
right, you use a div with an onclick event
that's not focusable, these things can
be very easily statically analyzed.
So, I think step one would always be
adding a linter to whatever project you're
working on using whatever
linting technology you're using.
Step two would be, and this is optional,
if you're able to making use of
these existing code systems,
design systems, that are very
good about accessibility already.
So I linked to Adobe's React Spectrum,
and also Google's Material Design.
Twitter Bootstrap is another
great example, Foundation.
All of these big projects, for
the most part, spend a lot of time and
energy on accessibility.
And so if your project allows it by
using their modal, their drop-down,
their navigation, these things like that,
you'll get a lot of freebies,
which will be really nice.
So you won't have to build
tab trapping yourself.
You won't necessarily have to
build skip links yourself.
They have a class,
Bootstrap comes with a skip link class.
Things like that can be really helpful.
I understand that's not for everybody,
that you can use another design system.
So step three is starting to find some
ways to run audits and to automate those.
And so my two favorite things right now,
we kinda went through this area
where there were a lot of tools.
There was a big diversity of tools for
accessibility testing, and
then over the last few years, they've
all sort of merged or sunset themselves.
And so
they're kinda two big players right now.
There's Deque,
which is this really great company that
does exclusively accessibility work.
So they do consultations,
they do a full audit, they work with you.
They do all this cool stuff.
But for today, they have a free Chrome
DevTool, which does accessibility testing.
So this is really great,
it gives you a number score, 1 to 100, but
it gives you a ton of suggestions, and
they spend a lot of energy on this.
So it's very, very good just to add it
to Chrome and then to be able to run it.
So we'll go ahead and
just add the extension.
And then we can go back to
our site like here, and
let me pin it and
then just run the Axe extension here.
So open up DevTools, and then you'll
have a new tab in the DevTools.
You click this, you can kinda select,
so I'm a developer,
I accept the terms of service,
start using it.
Not sign up for a free trial right now.
So I'm gonna scan the whole page.
And so it'll go ahead, I see, sorry.
Yeah, this is one other
thing that's worth noting.
The DevTools will often struggle
when you're using the file protocol.
So if you just find an index.html file
on your page and you open it in Chrome,
a lot of DevTools stuff,
Lighthouse included, won't work on those.
So if you wanna do it locally,
you'll need an actual server running,
like a Python server, a Node server,
or something like that.
But for today, we can just use
the Netlify app that I had deployed,
which is the exact same site,
but it's learn-ally@netlify.com.
So I'll go ahead and
I'll scan the page here.
And then it says okay,
it detected these two automatic issues.
So it's got a coupe of things.
The element location of HTML
does not have a main landmark.
So it's looking for
this landmark of main, the HTML, so
we could add landmark main to that.
And then I think that's everything.
Ensure all page content is
contained by landmarks.
I think it's the same thing,
the container also needs to be one.
So these are kind of cool.
The thing that I don't like about these
which I like about the next one that I'll
show better, is the solution to solve
this is a little bit confusing here.
Whereas the Lighthouse ones,
which we'll see in a minute,
take you to some really good
documentation about how to do it.
But Axe is really cool,
it catches things that Lighthouse doesn't.
And I do use it quite often.
So the other option is actually
built into Chrome DevTools.
So if you just open Chrome DevTools
on a modern version of Chrome and
you go to Lighthouse,
this does a ton of things.
I covered a lot in my Chrome DevTools
class, so it does performance auditing,
SEO auditing, all that stuff.
But for today, we're just gonna get it
down to just the accessibility test.
So just select accessibility and
generate a report here.
This takes a second, it runs, and
then it comes back with this report here.
So you can see as far
as the Lighthouse goes,
it passed all of the audits
that were applicable.
But we could do things like if we had
color contrast, it would catch that,
images without alts.
Like for an example if I go to,
let me close DevTools for a second and
go to the screen readers one and let's
go to this, oop, not that one, sorry.
Where's the second exercise,
accessible HTML.
And I go to this exercise,
which we knew had some broken stuff on it.
And I opened DevTools again, and
I do an accessibility audit right here.
This can be a great way of
kind of figuring things out.
So these are the things that we did
manually together cuz we kinda knew what
we were looking at.
But it found hey,
there's an image without an alt attribute.
And hey, all these form elements
don't have associated labels.
What I really like about this, if you ever
run into one that's confusing to you like
that landmark one was
confusing to me in Axe,
they always link to this really
good Chrome documentation.
So if you say, well, what does it
mean to have an associated label?
I can click here on the Learn More,
and it'll take me to a special page on
web.dev that's just like forms like
this are failing, how to add a label.
All the stuff that we covered in this
class, but they'll have a page for
each specific rule that might fail,
which is really, really helpful.
So yeah, so that's the multiple step
approach that I always suggest,
is getting some linters in place
right away, that'll help a lot.
If applicable, if doable,
using a design system can be really cool.
Some of the modern design systems
like Adobe's React Spectrum system,
you can actually take
components without their UI.
So you can build your own
actual UI on top of them, but
you get all that functionality and
accessibility with it.
So that might be a thought.
If you already have a very strict design
principle that you're sticking to,
sometimes you can use these without
the UI level, but it's not always doable.
And then also doing these developer tools.
One thing that's also
cool about Lighthouse is,
depending on your build flow, you could
add a Lighthouse check into your CICD, so
through a GitHub action.
So that can be really cool,
I've had that at work before,
where let's say we have a Lighthouse run
and then we'll say fail an EPR that lowers
the performance score or the accessibility
score, something like that.
And then those will automatically get run
and flagged, which can be pretty cool if
you wanna set up something like that,
Lighthouse is very good for that.
So the question was, can you show
how some of these design systems
like React Spectrum allow you to
grab functionality without the UI?
So for example, I know that the team
at Vercel that build Next.js and
things that,
are using React Spectrum minus the UI.
Okay, so here, so they have, okay.
So it looks like the React Spectrum
itself is with UI, but
it also looks like they have sub packages.
They have a React Aria
package which looks,
let's see if I can see what's in it.
So here, so for example,
if you install React Spectrum button,
you'll get the UI and the accessibility.
If you install React Aria button, you'll
get just the accessibility stuff, and
you can style the button however you want.
It won't come with CSS.
Yeah, it's really cool, yeah,
it's like a kind of new thing.
I was really impressed when
I first heard that, so
I worked really closely with
the Spectrum team at Adobe.
And then when I heard that other teams
were using it with their own UI,
I was like that's really cool.
But I didn't know how they did it,
so yeah,
this is really neat idea of kind
of breaking it out that way.